+++
title = "Uzumaki: To live is to spiral into horror"
date = 2024-05-17
description = "It's a snail person!"
draft = true
[taxonomies]
tags = ["review", "manga"]
+++
What kind of people do you think can create the most horrifying and freaky horror stories? I don't mean psychological horror, instead, think of supernatural and cosmic horror. So what's your answer? To me, there are mainly two answers to this. It can be people who have been through a lot of horror in their personal lives, you know, horror and pain conflicted by other people. These people can express such terrifying experiences through a coating of the supernatural and create a truly terrifying work of art. I can't think of any right now, but if you know any, you HAVE to let me know in the comments. But, the other side, the other answer, to this question is even more clear and obvious. It's people in the medical field.

There was a radio programme in my country about horror stories. The one that terrified me the most was about a hospital. There's great potential for truly spine shivering stories here. I'm not smart and dedicated enough to be a medical doctor, but my excuse is always: "It's scawwy." So when an ex-dentist starts making horror manga, rest assured, it's gonna be absolute peak. And, guess who authored Uzumaki? To nobody's surprise (mostly because of my banger of an intro, thanks, thanks): Junji Ito, an ex-dentist.

Uzumaki is arguably Junji Ito's most popular work. Think of snails, think of spiral shapes, think of long hair - do it now because you'll think of these things from a different perspective after reading Uzumaki. But if you don't like gore or disturbing art, or just horror in general then maybe steer clear of this one. It really gets under your skin. But otherwise I welcome you to read Uzumaki and all of Junji Ito's other works. Uzumaki is structured in a mini-arc pattern, as in, it has multiple smaller stories completely different from the others but still is connected to the main overarching plot. It's an interesting style to say the least, and each mini-arc represents a different horror. I read it a few months ago, but nothing's wrong with writing a review this late, right?

It's Kurouzu, a calm town by the sea somewhere in Japan. It might remind you of the hit indie game "Dredge" if you've played it. The town has an abandoned lighthouse too, seems like a nice place, no? It's the type of place you'd want to live in after you retire, if you seek some peace. But, make sure it's not Kurouzu. Right away in the story you get the feeling that something isn't right. You meet the two main characters of this story: Kirie and Shuichi. Kirie is the type of girl that dies in horror movies and Shuici is the type of guy that dies in horror movies, but both for different reasons. Kirie studies in Kurouzu High School and Shuichi studies in High School in the next town. Anyway, yeah, spirals. There's something up with those. A lot of whirlpools are forming in water streams, Shuichi's father is obsessed with this particular shape and plants and weed on the ground have taken an peculiar spiral look. Spirals, spirals and spirals. Shuichi is *very* bothered by this and he asks Kirie to escape this town together. He grabs the attention of the reader and tells them that there **IS** something wrong happening here. He thinks he'll go crazy if he continues living here. It's obvious to him because he goes out of town everyday, but whenever he comes back, he feels dizzy. Almost as if this town is driving him insane.

It's a very good setting and it grips you from the start. An ominous town, two characters in the middle of chaos, a feeling that the characters are just a tiny part of a massive conspiracy and an overarching mystery that needs to solved. The art is disturbing to say the least, I mean it's Junji Ito, it should be obvious that the art isn't going to depict pleasant things. Being a dentist helps, I guess. The depictions will stay with you for a long time, I still remember them as clear as day even though it's been a few months since I read it. So beware.

Also, if you don't want to read a manga and would prefer watching an anime, then yes, you can! An anime adaptation of Uzumaki is in the works, here's a trailer: [FIRST LOOK: Uzumaki | Toonami | adult swim](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qRrqvjjKlOs)

And, if you happen to like snails, then you might not after reading this oooorrr you might, no kink shaming.

So, to make a conclusion all I'll say is Uzumaki should be enough to fill your morbid curiosity for the year. I tried really hard to not write anything that will spoil your fun, as I myself prefer going into mangas blind for the most part. If you feel like you'd like it, then by all means, read it! It's a solid 8/10 for me.
